# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?


 creating an instance of a class is called instantiation.after creation we can call the instance as an object . In my property class i created 3 instances of the  property class like property_1,property_2,property_3 .

<!-- ================================= -->

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?


In property class i created a instance save method which enables to build a connection to  the database first and execute the sql command to insert the property objects  like (property_1, property_2 ,property_3 ....) and save them into the database .if we call it with the instance of an object.

<!-- ================================= -->
Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

console.rb used to create the objects and to perform the actions on the object depend on the methods i will create. In my console.rb i used instance update method to modify the data in the database that already existed .
property_1.number_of_bedrooms=1
property_1.update()  

<!-- ================================= -->

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
we can also use id of the 'Property' object  at the point of  instantiation , but we need to add the values to it and also it needs to be unique .I think it is tough to do if we have more records so we are not using it at the time of instantiate .we are using id with the type  SERIAL so that Postgres will take care of it to maintain unique values.
<!-- ================================= -->

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object
we initialized  the id in the property.rb at the time of creating the object with in the constructor like this
@id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']
<!-- ================================= -->
Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
by using the if clause on id attribute we are telling that if id is not null then we are  converting  that to integer
@id = options['id'].to_i() if options['id']
<!-- ================================= -->

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
two types of methods : class level methods and instance/object level methods
for class level methods we don't need any instance to be created to call the class methods . in my case i used delete_all, find methods are taken as class methods
and insert ,update and delete a single or multiple lines are taken asa instance methods , we need an instance to be created to perform the operation on it.
<!-- ================================= -->


Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

after executing the db.exec_prepared() we will get the array of hashes from it and to access the id we need to go in to  the array first that's why we are taking [0] index 0 and taking the id and converting it to the integer
@id=db.exec_prepared("save" , values)[0]['id'].to_i()




<!-- ================================= -->
Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
If we give values directly to the database there is a chance of attackers trying to access that data . so to protect our code safe from hackers we use prepared statements .

<!-- ================================= -->
## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.
<!-- ================================= -->

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
 `find_by_id` takes id as an argument because we need to find a specific property among a list of properties
`find_by_address` takes address as an argument that we want to find from to get the specific address property

<!-- ================================= -->

Q11. What are their return values?
after executing the `find_by_id`,`find_by_address` methods we will get array of hashes
so we convert that to array of objects and returning the object which meets the `find_by_id`,`find_by_address` criteria
